#summary Downloads Page
#labels Version-3.2.3.5,Featured

== Latest official recommended version - 3.2.3.5: ==

  * Mobile allocation quota fixed (issue 121);
  * *--simple-log* option added (Issue 122);
  * documentation fixes (REST API, Redis).

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.3.5/ 3.2.3.5 Version Downloads (full source and platform builds)]

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/ Main Downloads Page (with all recent versions)]

[http://www.olegmoskalenko.com/turnserver/ Backup Downloads Page]

== Older versions ==

=== 3.2.3.4: ===

  * Mobile TCP sessions fixed (Issue 120);
  * log information improvements.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.3.4/ v3.2.3.4]

=== 3.2.3.3: ===

  * Pkey and cert file descriptors to be closed on initialization (issue 118);
  * Address bind indefinite cycle on start-up fixed (Issue 119);
  * Allocation counters time lag improved.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.3.3/ v3.2.3.3]

=== 3.2.3.2: ===

  * Allocation counters fixed (Issue 117);
  * a possible core dump in the server code fixed;
  * a possible memory leak in server fixed.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.3.2/ v3.2.3.2]

=== 3.2.3.1: ===

  * TCP congestion avoidance completed.
  * Read and write streams are treated separately in bandwidth control algorithms.
  * Test client fixed.
  * Experimental SHA256 key storage supported, for experimental HMAC-SHA256 long-term mechanism extension.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.3.1/ v3.2.3.1]

=== 3.2.2.912: ===

  * TCP-in-TCP congestion avoidance implemented.
  * UDP-in-TCP congestion avoidance improved.
  * Alternate-server code cleaned.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.912/ v3.2.2.912]

=== 3.2.2.911: ===

  * "Congestion control" for UDP-inside-TCP tunneling;
  * memory management improvements;
  * socket logging improvements;
  * debug info added to CentOS and Fedora RPMs;
  * TCP traffic buffering improved;
  * Thread barriers cleaned;
  * TCP memory leak fixed;
  * minor TCP test client improvement.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.911/ v3.2.2.911]

=== 3.2.2.910: ===

  * Log messages extended and cleaned.
  * Some memory cleaning.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.910/ v3.2.2.910]

=== 3.2.2.9: ===

  * Issue 113: TCP relay rate control fixed;
  * Issue 114: TCP relay stability fixes.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.9/ v3.2.2.9]

=== 3.2.2.8: ===

  * Issue 102: SO_BSDCOMPAT socket option removed;
  * Issue 104: check for the REALM attribute value;
  * Issue 105: no-cli segfault fixed;
  * Issue 106: MESSAGE-INTEGRITY removed from DATA indication;
  * Issue 108: Server should return 438 on unknown nonce;
  * Issue 109: make the random functions stronger (mostly for transaction ID and for nonce);
  * Issue 111: fix valgrind warning on memory initialization.
  * Issue 112: RTCP sockets logging.

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.8/ v3.2.2.8]

=== 3.2.2.7: ===

  * Possible indefinite cycle fixed in TCP/TCP routing (Issue 99);
  * Address 0.0.0.0 can be used as a listener address (Issue 100);
  * DHCP-configured servers supported (Issue 101).
  * Debian and Ubuntu INSTALL file fixed (Issue 103)

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.7/ v3.2.2.7]

=== 3.2.2.6: ===

  * Channel traffic memory copy elimination.
  * Send indication memory copy elimination.
  * DTLS traffic processing memory copy eliminated.
  * Mobility forbidden error code number fixed - according to the new draft document.
  * getsockname() usage minimized.
  * port allocation improved.
  * default relay behavior fixed (when no relay addresses defined).
  * atomic create permission request handling (Issue 97).

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.6/ v3.2.2.6]

=== 3.2.2.5: ===

  * CPU & RAM Optimization
  * License cleaned in the platform builds

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.5/ v3.2.2.5]

=== 3.2.2.4 ===

  * Fixes the major security issues 95 and 96
  * Fixes the minor issues 93 and 94

[http://turnserver.open-sys.org/downloads/v3.2.2.4/ v3.2.2.4]

== Legacy versions ==

[http://code.google.com/p/rfc5766-turn-server/downloads/list?can=1&q=&colspec=Version+Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size Legacy Downloads Page]