#summary turnadmin wiki page
#labels Version-4.4.4.1

== turnadmin application: a TURN relay administration tool==

===Usage:===
{{{
       $ turnadmin [command] [options]
       $ turnadmin [ -h	| --help]
}}}
===Commands:===

 * *-P,* *--generate-encrypted-password* Generate and print to the standard output an encrypted form of a password (for web admin user or CLI). The value then can be used as a safe key for the password storage on disk or in the database. Every invocation for the same password produces a different result. The for mat of the encrypted password is: $5$<...salt...>$<...sha256(salt+password)...>. Salt is 16 characters, the sha256 output is 64 characters. Character 5 is the algorithm id (sha256). Only sha256 is supported as the hash function.
 * *-k,* *--key* Generate key for a long-term credentials mechanism user.
 * *-a,* *--add* Add or update a long-term user.
 * *-d,* *--delete* Delete a long-term user.
 * *-l,* *--list* List all long-term users.
 * *-s,* *--set-secret=...* Set secret in the database.
 * *-S,* *--show-secret* Show secret stored in database.
 * *-X,* *--delete-secret* {{{<secret>}}}	Delete a shared secret.
 * *--delete-all-secrets*	Delete all shared secrets for REST API.
 * *-O,* *--add-origin*	Add origin-to-realm relation.
 * *-R,* *--del-origin*	Delete origin-to-realm relation.
 * *-I,* *--list-origins* List origin-to-realm relations.
 * *-g,* *--set-realm-option* Set realm params: *_max-bps_*, *_total-quota_*, *_user-quota_*.
 * *-G,* *--list-realm-options* List realm params.

===Options:===

 * *-b,* *--db*, *--userdb* {{{<sqlite-file-name>}}} SQLite database file name (default - /var/db/turndb or /usr/local/var/db/turndb or /var/lib/turn/turndb, depending on platform).
 * *-e,* *--psql-userdb,* *--sql-userdb* {{{<connection-string>}}} PostgreSQL database connection string.
 * *-M,* *--mysql-userdb* {{{<connection-string>}}} MySQL database connection string.
 * *-N,* *--redis-userdb* {{{<connection-string>}}} Redis database connection string.
 * *-J,* *--mongo-userdb* {{{<connection-string>}}} MongoDB user database connection string.
 * *-u,* *--user* {{{<user>}}}   User name.
 * *-r,* *--realm* {{{<realm>}}}    Realm.
 * *-p,* *--password* {{{<password>}}} Password.
 * *-o,* *--origin* {{{origin}}} Fully-formed origin, for example {{{https://crinna.org:443}}}.
 * *-H,* *--sha256*	Use SHA256 as the keys hash function (a non-standard feature). By default, MD5 is used for the key storage encryption (as required by the current STUN/TURNstandards).
 * *-Y*     SHA384 digest function for message integrity calculation.
 * *-K*     SHA512 digest function for message integrity calculation.
 * *--max-bps* Set value of realm's max-bps parameter. _Setting to zero value means removal of the option._
 * *--total-quota* Set value of realm's total-quota parameter. _Setting to zero value means removal of the option._
 * *--user-quota* Set value of realm's user-quota parameter. _Setting to zero value means removal of the option._
 * *-h,* *--help* Help.

===Generate a key:===
{{{
       $ turnadmin -k -u <username> -r <realm> -p <password>
}}}
===Add/update a user (and realm) in the database:===
{{{
       $ turnadmin -a [-b <sqlite-db-file> | -e <db-connection-string> | -M <db-connection-string>  | -N <db-connection-string> ] -u <username>	-r <realm>  -p	<password>
}}}
===Delete a user from the database:===
{{{
       $ turnadmin -d [-b <sqlite-db-file> | -e <db-connection-string> | -M <db-connection-string>  | -N <db-connection-string> ] -u <username>
}}}
===List all long-term users in MySQL database:===
{{{
$ turnadmin -l --mysql-userdb="<db-connection-string>"
}}}
===List all long-term users in Redis database:===
{{{
$ turnadmin -l --redis-userdb="<db-connection-string>"
}}}
===Set secret:===
{{{
$ turnadmin -s <secret> --mysql-userdb="<db-connection-string>"
}}}
===Show secret(s):===
{{{
$ turnadmin -S --psql-userdb="<db-connection-string>"
}}}
===Set origin-to-realm relation in MySQL database:===
{{{
$ turnadmin --mysql-userdb="<db-connection-string>" -r <realm> -o <origin>
}}}
===Delete origin-to-realm relation from Redis DB:===
{{{
$ turnadmin --redis-userdb="<db-connection-string>" -o <origin>
}}}
===List all origin-to-realm relations in Redis DB:===
{{{
$ turnadmin --redis-userdb="<db-connection-string>" -I
}}}
===List the origin-to-realm relations in PostgreSQL DB for a single realm:===
{{{
$ turnadmin --psql-userdb="<db-connection-string>" -I -r <realm>
}}}
===Help:===
{{{
       $ turnadmin -h
}}}